Now let's take a look at what a three‑node SQL Server
availability group looks like on Kubernetes.
First, we'll create a three‑node kubernetes cluster for the availability group,
one node for each of our SQL Server replicas.
Next, we're going to create three Persistent Volume Claims,
one for each SQL Server instance. Remember, in an availability
group each SQL Server system is an independent instance, so each
one needs its own storage and databases.
Next, we'll go ahead and create the SQL Server availability group.
That availability group is going to have three replicas.
One is going to be a primary replica, and then there's going to be two
secondary replicas. Just to cover all the bases, one of these replicas is
going to be synchronous and one replica is going to be asynchronous.
Kubernetes is going to provide the high availability for the SQL Server
instances by using a ReplicaSet.
This is exactly what you saw in the previous module for
SQL Server high availability; however,
this time there are three of them, one for each SQL Server
availability group replica. The SQL Server availability group, that's
going to take care of replicating the transactions on the primary
replica to the two secondary replicas.
This enables read scalability.
Kubernetes alone cannot provide this because SQL Server is a
stateful application; you can't scale it up just by adding new
SQL Server instances; however,
the availability group does allow read scaling. Reporting applications or
backup can take place on the secondary replica, freeing the primary replica
from those workloads. Here you can see an architectural overview of the SQL
Server availability group on Kubernetes solution.
Our solution uses three nodes and three pods running SQL Server
Red Hat Enterprise Linux in a Docker container.
Each pod has its own independent storage provided by a
Persistent Volume Claim, a load balancing service provides
network access to the SQL Server pods,
and it opens up the ports required by SQL Server and the
availability group. Before we leave this architecture slide, one
thing I'd like to point out is that while I've chosen to implement
this solution using Kubernetes deployments,
alternatively, I could have used Kubernetes stateful sets.
Stateful sets provide stable network identifiers, ordered deployment, as
well as ordered deletion and scaling for your pods.
However,
while the solution we're going through did require consistent
network identifiers in the form of host names,
it did not require ordered deployments. An ordered
deployment could have ensured that the primary replica
was created before the secondaries,
but we didn't really need that because subsequent configuration
steps were required to actually create the replicas.
Plus, stateful sets require a headless service for managing network identity,
and that was an additional new concept that wasn't really required.
So what's different about this solution from a
regular clustered availability group?
Well, obviously, one big difference is that this doesn't need a cluster.
There's no need for Windows failover clusters or pacemaker. With the
clusterless availability group, you get a readout solution which can
support things like reporting and backup.
In this solution, again,
Kubernetes is providing the availability for the SQL Server nodes.
Each SQL Server instance is part of a ReplicaSet that will specify
that there should always be one replica running.
Kubernetes will take care of the heavy lifting to make sure this happens.
Unlike a clustered availability group,
the clusterless availability group can have up to 17 distributed replicas.
Now, before we jump into the details of building this solution,
let's take a quick look at the requirements for building a
clusterless availability group. First,
the names for each SQL Server instance have to be 15 characters or less. For us,
that means we're going to need a host name entry in our deployment.
Otherwise, Kubernetes is going to assign the pod name as the host name,
and that's just going to be too long.
Next,
you need to enable HADR for each SQL Server instance in order to
support availability groups. In this example,
you'll see how we can do that using an environment
variable passed to the Linux container.
In addition,
the databases that are part of an availability group must be backed up,
and they also need to be in full recovery mode.
Next,
you're going to need a method to authenticate between the different servers,
and you can create and use a certificate for that,
and you'll see how that happens.
Finally,
each availability group replica needs an endpoint to communicate to the other replicas that are part of the availability group.